---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

Noushin Nabavi earned a B.Sc. in 2005 in Cell and Molecular Biology with a co-op and cum laude distinction. In the first co-op term at Sanofi Pasteur, she helped in the lifecycle of the development of HIV vaccine and in the second co-op term she worked at Pharma Medica on data quality and assurance for clinical trials. Having gained experience in the industry, she continued towards a PhD in the Cell and Systems Biology department at the University of Toronto. She earned her doctorate degree in 2012 with a thesis that developed an account of the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in pre-osteoblastic stem cell differentiation to bone. Her work explained why bone loss occurs in microgravity environments, and developed a model that can shed light on astronauts losing bone during space travel or explain bone loss in disuse osteoarthritic patients. 
She then received a Siebel Stem Cell Fellowship from the University of California, Berkeley (2012-2013) and worked on deciphering the molecular mechanisms of aging using animal and cellular models of disease. Subsequently, as a visiting scientist (2013-2015), she developed _in vitro_ assays for drug metabolism with a leading scholar in the field of cellular and molecular pharmacology at the University of California, San Francisco. Dr. Nabavi returned to Canada and led a transcriptomics, proteomics, and genomics project at the BC Cancer Research Centre on the rare mesothelioma cancer from 2015 to 2018. For this, she assembled an international consortium of experts in the field, wrote successful grant applications, published in peer-reviewed journals, and presented her work in local, national and international conferences. Since 2018, she has joined the civil service as a data science and science policy fellow and later economist. She uses health data to support evidence-based decision making.
